I am a fan of design. Especially game design! One of my favorite things to do is get together with friends and sit around and talk about how WE would design an entry in one of our favorite video game series. What the game does well already, what we'd like to see from the franchise in the future, what WE would do if we got the chance to make our own Fire Emblem game, or Persona game, or... a Pokémon game! Pokémon Blue was the first game I have any memory of playing, and I've always *liked* Pokémon, but I've never *loved* it. Like, I've never played a Pokémon game and been like, "Aw, wow, they nailed it this time around! This is the best!" "Now, Jello," you might ask, "how would you, with your many years of not having any game design experience go about designing a Pokémon game?" Well, thank you very much for asking, I'd be happy to tell you my pitch for a brand-new Pokémon game. ✨ Now, I'm not saying this is my pitch for "The Best Pokémon Game Ever," it's just a *good* Pokémon game. A nice Pokémon game! A Pokémon game I would like to see made. Couple of rules: The game I'm proposing has a real budget and time constraints, so I can't ask for anything that would take five hundred million dollars or man-hours that we don't have, it has to be a reasonable pitch that's at least somewhat realistic, so you can't just pop in a thousand new Pokémon into the game as though that wouldn't take any work, it also has to be like—a *Pokémon* game? For all ages? Like, a real one they'd actually try to sell? So you can't just be like, "Oh, yeah, you join the bad guy team! There's... murder now! Pokémon die!" Like, you know, this isn't Pokémon Special, they're never gonna do that. I know a lot of fan-games go for the dark angle, this is not that. Just so you know, I'm mostly gonna be talking about mechanical and structural design, and not so much, like, Pokémon designs themselves, like, I actually like how most of the new Pokémon they've added in the past decade or so look, I don't have a problem with the designs. But, before we can talk about any Pokémon game design at all, first I wanted to give a shoutout to another game, Dragon City! Because they sponsored this video, which was very nice of them :) We wanted this pitch to have a bunch of cool custom artwork and nice editing and we have a very, VERY big project coming out soon that needs all the funding it can get, and none of that would be possible without their help. So if you wanna support the channel, click that link below to download the game! Do you like Pokémon but wish there were more dragon types? Well, Dragon City's got you covered! I picked it up pretty recently, and I already have over 300 dragons. And there's still more! That's not even all of them! My personal favorites are the dragons that are not dragons, like Davy Jones Dragon and Mime Dragon. Each dragon generates gold so you can buy them food and train their attacks, hone their skills and make them stronger until YOUR MIME IS UNSTOPPABLE. Pit your dragons against other players in battle leagues and in the arena! Got friends? I sure hope so! &lt;:) Well, if you do, you can use Facebook Connect to play against your buddies and connect across all your devices! There's new events every single week, like this puzzle island, where I managed to unlock a quarter million gold and THIRTY-THOUSAND FOODS FOR MY MIME. Are you tired of Mime Dragon? That's no problem! Put him in a fight to the death! And you can even do it on auto-battle mode so it saves you time, and you don't have to watch! Or you can send him off on a quest to find you new buildings. There's so much to do! So check out Dragon City right now by clicking the link in the description below. There's no reason not to download it! Unless you're too busy DRAGON your feet! aaaaaa I'm fired :) Much like the breath of a DRAGON ok i'm done. Back to the game pitch. So, I think it's important when designing something to have a goal, like a thesis that you're designing your game around. So what do we want our game to do? What do we want our players to feel when they play it? For instance, Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is built around creating a sense of exploration and growth. The entire game is structured around that concept: You explore places, you get rewarded by clearing shrines, you get stronger, with that new strength you can explore new places like mountaintops and glaciers, it builds into itself really well. So, say we want to design a Pokémon game! What are the core concepts of the Pokémon series? What do the developers want us to do? I would argue Pokémon has three goals: three thesis we're going to structure our game around. First, of course, there's the obvious one: "You Gotta Catch 'Em All," especially your favorite Pokémon. That's easy, just have cute and fun Pokémon, encourage the people to catch them and trade them, uhhh the games do those really well already, unless they're Pokémon Colosseum, uhhh so we're not gonna change anything there. It's the other two that I really wanna focus on this video. And I'll keep the third for later, but most of this video covers the second thesis. And the second thesis is, "Make the player feel like they are going on a Pokémon journey." That means exploring the region, meeting new people, getting stronger, collecting badges, etc. etc. to give the player a sense of adventure. And the fact that it is THEIR adventure. This covers world design, the game's flavor, characters, structure— this is the one I'm gonna be focusing on for most of the video, so let's dive right in. Here is the pitch: You are a new trainer who's just moved to the region of Regona—doesn't matter where it is, doesn't matter where it's based on— You are ready to receive a Pokémon and start your adventure. But that's the key. This is supposed to be an adventure! And one of my big problems with recent Pokémon games is that the Pokémon world maps are so linear. You can't go where you want to. You can't explore. There's a power outage in this totally bright, well-lit, sunny city! But it's too dangerous to go there right now! Ignore all the people walking in and out! It is too dangerous! They are not real! For instance, take a look at the path the player has to take through each region in the different games. Kalos and Unova are both complete circles with only one direction to travel in, like a clock. And Alola is a series of small circles that you teleport between. The earlier generations have a *little* more variety? And you're free to explore and challenge *some* of the gym leaders out of order? For instance, in Johto, you can fight Chuck, Jasmine, and Pryce in any order you want, and in Kanto, you can actually fight Erica, Koga, Sabrina, Blaine, and even Surge in any order, so long as Koga is fought before Blaine. And—now, ok, don't get me wrong, I am NOT one of those people who thinks that Generation 1 is the end-all, be-all best Pokémon region. In fact, Kanto has been accessible in five generations of games now, and I hope we never see it again! ^_^ But, I do think there's a lot to be gained from giving the player options. We don't want the game to feel like a theme park ride with one track you go on while pre-painted areas kind of just pass you by in the background in a set order. So! To remedy that, I am going to propose my first major status quo change for this game— and it's the biggest one, so bear with me here— instead of having two different versions of the game like Black and White or Sun and Moon, there are *three* of them. And each version starts you off with a different starter Pokémon, in a different starting location. One for the grass starter, one for the fire starter, and one for the water starter. The idea is there are three Professors— and they're all goofy and quirky and fun— and they're rivals with one another, and they want to have a competition. Each of them is going to entrust a starter Pokémon and a Pokédex to a different trainer at the same time, and then send them out into the world. Whichever trainer brings back the most research material for their professor is the winner. So, each professor picks a trainer— and these guys are like your friendly rivals? Like your Shaunas, your Haus, your Barrys, you get the idea. I'm just gonna collectively call them your "buds." When the player picks one of these three versions, their character will stand-in for one of the three buds. So you only get two of the buds in any given version. Or, maybe the third one can also be there, but, like, they're not important in that version, they're just in the background drinking tea or whatever. Each of the three version's starting areas are *really* different. So, let's say there's a fire-themed area, a water one, a grass one, just to match the starters. But, the key is that all the areas have to be cool and interesting, You don't want players to avoid picking up one of the versions just 'cause the starting area in that one is lame. Each of these towns has a unique set of Pokémon that live around there, with a variety of types that you can catch right off the bat. So, maybe the fire-themed area is like a factory with steel and poison types, or a festival town with lots of lights and electric Pokémon. The grass area is like a forest, but it's a ~Haunted Forest~👻 or a ~Magic Forest~🧚 with ghosts and fairy and dragon Pokémon everywhere. Like, fairy-tale themed. And then the water town is an oasis in the middle of the desert, or maybe it's at the top of a really tall waterfall in the clouds and there's just bird Pokémon everywhere! You get the idea. So, each of these towns is on the far edges of the region, like, they're all tucked away in their own little respective corners. And there's only one route leading in and out of each of them. That way, you can design a small, linear stretch of the game to serve as a prologue so no matter which version a player picks up, new players won't get confused and you can still teach them the ropes. And at the same time, veteran players get to check out a new kind of starting area instead of just, "Here is a Pidgey. Here's a Rattata." "There's grass." I realize this is kind of a radical change from the status quo, but I think it would be just enough to really shake things up without bucking the series formula entirely. Plus, three versions instead of two is gonna look really good from a marketing standpoint! 😉 Especially if you make all the games significantly different from each other so people wanna buy all of them. So, the way the game works is, you get your Pokémon from the professor, and you get your Pokédex, and they're like, "Hey! Every town has an optional research quest you can do for me, like a little dungeon or a scavenger hunt or something, and they're not mandatory, but—you should go do 'em!" And you get to the end of the starting area, and there's a gym leader you have to fight! And you beat that guy, and he's like, "Hey, you should go collect all the badges!" And you're like, "Yeah, you know what, that sounds fun! I'd love to go collect all the badges! Where should I go next?" and the answer is, ✨anywhere✨ Once you have your first badge, the world is yours to explore! Like—half the map is open *immediately.* So, here's how I think this would work. The region is split into four different areas. I'm gonna call 'em "counties" 'cause that's folksy. So each of the starting areas is in its own county. And then there's like, another county in the middle, and that's where the Pokémon League is. And you can just go wherever you want! I mean, some areas are too high-leveled for you at the start, and if you waltz over there with your level 10 Bidoof, you're gonna get your butt kicked, but— you can go there! There's no intricate plot or anything other than, "You want to explore!" But you've got badges, and the professors are giving you these research quests, and those act as goalposts to kind of direct you to different places that you want to investigate. The player gets an item that allows them to fast-travel between towns, something like Fly, really early on in the game. That way they're not afraid to explore *too* far in any given direction, and they can just zip back to places they might've missed. You don't want anyone to get stuck in an area that's too high-leveled and then not give them an escape route. I don't know what it would be, like maybe a fast-pass on some kind of public transport, or each of the professors has, like, a giant bird that they lend you—it doesn't really matter. Have, like, a little indicator of the average Pokémon level on the bottom of the screen when you're exploring so a player immediately knows if they're out of their depth when they walk into a place that's, like, thirty levels higher than they are. Make it so that when you're under-leveled, the "run" mechanic has, like, a way higher chance of working, so low-leveled players don't just get destroyed by a wild Pokémon encouter. But also, y'know, like, put a high-level trainer blocking the route's exists so they can't just waltz through the whole game while running from all the monsters. So, they're all optional, but I think it'd be really cute if the more research quests that you completed, the more the professor enhances your starting town using the information you give them. So, like, the game goes on, and your town gets bigger and better, and the local economy's doing really well, and it's all... it's all 'cause of you, so everybody really likes you! That'd be really, like, a nice concrete way to mark the player's progress, and a good excuse for the professor to give them rewards. I like that. Most of the world map is open at the start, but there's a bunch of these little optional dungeons and secret areas that are blocked off until you get either a special item that works like an HM or a special Pokémon. So, like, maybe you start in the woods, and you're the grass starter, and there's this pitch-black stretch of forest, and you just can't get through there, until you find the ~night vision goggles~ from the factory by the fire starter! Or maybe you get, like, an Ampharos or an Illumise or something, and they can light the way. I dunno. The world map is a little bit like a giant JRPG Metroidvania. Hide most of the good TMs and a lot of stat-up items in the dungeon, like, if you want a good TM, like if you want Earthquake? You're gonna have to find that in the earthquake cave! Some dungeons have Pokémon bosses at the end of them, so like, a totem Pokémon-style thing, or like a Snorlax, and then you have to fight it. And you get a reward for beating them! 'Cause I really like the Pokémon bosses that are actually Pokémon instead of trainers. So, you might be wondering how they're going to balance a game as open as this one. It's easy to balance a linear RPG, because you know exactly where your player will be and when they'll be there, but it's a lot harder when they can just... kinda wander around wherever. So there are two big balancing factors that I thought of. The first is that each county kind of has its own generalized difficulty level, so the first one you start out in is, like, level 5 to level 25 or level 30. And all the trainers and wild Pokémon there are kind of around that level. So then, the other two counties you didn't start in are statted somewhere like 20 to 60. And that way if you wander in there early on, you can explore a little! But there's definitely areas that you have to train your way up to before you can explore the entirety of the county. And obviously, these difficulty levels would switch around based on which version you got, so you always start in the easy one. Then the middle county is, like... that's the *final county.* It starts at, like, level 45 at the absolute lowest, I like the idea that you can kinda wander into that county really early on and see all the powerful trainers there, 'cause it kinda gives the player something to work towards and I think that's really important in a game as open as this. There's a lot of strong trainers in the world, and if you want to be strong like them, I think you should work for it! The other big balancing factor is the gyms. A lot of secondary Poké-media like Pokémon Origins and the manga have this ongoing thing where Gym Leaders actually have multiple teams of Pokémon, not just one, and they're all at different levels of strength. And the Gym Leader uses a different team based on how many badges the challenger has. So, say the challenger has one badge, you might fight, like, two Pokémon around level 10, but if the challenger has six badges, it could be a team of five Pokémon in the, like, late 30s-early 40s. That's a really cool idea, and I wanna run with it. That way if a player is, like, level 50 now, but they missed a gym earlier, and it's back in a level 20 area, the Gym Leader isn't just stupid weak and an easy fight. That way you can't just brainlessly power through things. There's some cool Pokémon ROMs out there like Pokémon Crystal Clear that do something like this, though that game also makes every *trainer* level up depending on how many badges you have, and I actually really don't like that. So, I'm just gonna make it the Gym Leaders. Also! Gym Leaders no longer specialize in one specific type of Pokémon anymore! Pokémon has done this to death, I think there is nothing more that can be done with it. So instead, Gyms are now based around specific themes and mechanics. So instead of an Electric Gym or a Bug Gym, there's a... Sound Gym! And the Gym Leader is, like, a pop idol named Melody. And all the Pokémon in her gym are sound-based! So it's, like, Whismurs and Jigglypuffs, Chatots, Chinglings, Chimeco—they all use moves like uproar and sonic boom and sing, and then, you know, if you're having trouble, there's like, a dude sitting on a bench outside the gym who's like, "Oh, gee, I hear there's a Pokémon with an ability called Soundproof that prevents all sound-based moves! But you can only get it in this specific cave that's far away from here!" That way, you can still have a cool, cohesive theme for your Gym Leader, but a player doesn't just need to be like, "Oh, it's an electric-type gym. I have a ground-type. I win." Like, there's still a hard-counter strategy, but they kinda gotta work for it if they wanna cheat their way through. I think gyms based around mechanical concepts are really cool too, so Pokémon has, like, 7 million moves and abilities nowadays, and you can use those to construct a lot of really cool specific challenges for players to overcome. Some other ideas for gyms I had: A gym based around weather effects would be really fun, the Gym Leader's, like, a weather lady, and her gym is a TV station or something, and she uses combo moves, like Sunny Day/Solar Beam and Rain Dance/Thunder. A gym all about friendship, like every Pokémon there evolves from friendship, so it's, like, Blissey and Umbreon, and the Gym Leader's got, like, a Crobat at max friendship that uses Return, that move that gets stronger the more your Pokémon likes you? I kinda want him to be, like, a biker or something, who looks really intimidating but he's just a really cool dude. Like, the gym is a biker bar, but they're all just bros and they're all about being buds and how awesome it is to be nice to other people. Baby Pokémon Gym :3 Status Effect Gym—this is the worst one, everybody hates it. A gym based around gender! So half the trainers use girl-only Pokémon and some of them use boy-only Pokémon. The Gym Leader is, like, a double battle against a really lovey-dovey couple with matching Pokémon like Milktank and Tauros, or Illumise and Volbeat, and if you wanna cheese it, then you can just bring in an ungendered Pokémon so they can't use Attract or whatever on you, you get the idea. There's just a million cooler, more interesting things to do than, "Here's another water gym." And I think Pokémon's been sleeping on it for, like, a decade. There would either be two gyms in each county, or— my ideal preference, stay with me— we could go full-on Pokémon Anime, and there are TEN gyms! But you only need to beat eight of 'em if you want to get into the Pokémon League, and that way, if one of the gyms is giving you a ton of trouble, you can just go, "Eh... I'm just gonna skip this one." And I think that'd be more work, and it's a little less realistic, I don't think they'd do it, *but* it would lead to a lot of really cool, unique player experiences, like, "Hey, did you play that game? Which gym did you skip?" "Oh, I skipped this one!" "I did all of them!" "That one specific gym was really hard, I totally hated it!" This also means that if you already have eight badges, and you show up to one of the last two gyms, they can be like, "Oh! So you got all eight badges, huh?" "Okay!" "I'm gonna fight you for real. 😈" And then they're, like, a bonkers-hard super-boss. I think being able to fight all the Gym Leaders at their full strength would be a really fun postgame challenge once you beat the Elite Four. Most of the games have something like that nowadays, so this one would, too. I think it would also be cool if some of the gyms could be skipped if you do, like, a specific side-quest for them? Like, maybe there's a Gym Leader who's a firefighter or something, and if you help him out rescuing this Pokémon from a burning building dungeon, he'll be like, "Hey, man! That was really nice of you! You know, I'm actually the local gym leader. Uh, here, have my badge! You earned it, man. :) But, uh, you can still come fight me if you want! I'll give you a cool TM if you win. But, like... The badge is yours, kid! You got it ;)" I think that'd be nice. It's also a good way to add more optional quests to the game, and another good workaround for Gym Leaders that are giving the player too much trouble. I mean, after all, they level with your badge count now, so you can't just grind to power past them. In addition to the gyms and the research quests, I think there's also gonna be a handful of what I'm gonna call "story events," these are when you interact with your buddies, your rivals, or the bad guy team, who I'm just gonna call "Team Bad Guy." There are event flags at a bunch of different points in the game depending on how far along you are. So, say you've just left the starting fire town. Depending on which way you go, you will either meet the water buddy for the first time here or here. So no matter which way you go, you HAVE to encounter them. But where you do it is up to you. Also, some of these event flags are totally missable, like the one where you fight your rival a little bit to the west of Viridian City in Red and Blue, you can totally skip that fight if you do Pewter City first, and then it's just gone. You can't do it anymore. So let's say there's an event in this town with the grass buddy. But once you're past level 35 or you grab five badges, she's not there anymore! She's just gone. So these flags will appear and disappear throughout the game, and they're different in each version. But by the end of the game, you should've encountered both of your buddies eh, let's say like, three times on the low end, six or eight times if you encounter them at every possible opportunity. The villainous team, Team Bad Guy, would work the exact same way. So in every Pokémon game, there's a bad guy group *kind of* associated with the story, and the problem with them is... there's no nice way to say this, Pokémon's writing is bad, it's, it's SO bad, it's ALWAYS bad, the villains are anywhere on a sliding scale of cartoonishly terrible to... literally the worst villain I've ever seen, and I have played Kingdom Hearts, what is your plan? And the reason for this is, the writers seem to think that Pokémon needs these BIG JRPG VILLAINS WHO WANT TO BLOW UP THE WORLD AND REPLACE IT WITH A NEW WORLD! and, like... they don't need any of that? It's way too big a scale, and it's ridiculous. As a player, I want to collect Pokémon and be friends with them. Team Bad Guy wants to steal Pokémon from me, and treat them badly for financial gain. That's it! They're jerks! That's all they need to be. If they're jerks, I wanna stop them! There doesn't need to be more than that. This is why Team Rocket works, and Team Flare doesn't. 'Cause, they don't even have a cohesive theme. Like, they don't even know why they're Team Flare. You can ask them. They'll be like, "Uhh, I dunno. I... I like fashion? And money? Uhhh..." So for the sake of flavor, let's say our Team Bad Guy is Mafia themed. 🕵️ Like, they walk around with violin cases, and they open 'em up AND IT'S A KRICKETUNE! and he comes out and he gets ya 😎 And they send ya for a dip in the river with cement shoes from a Conkeldurr! oh i said there's no murder WELL YOU GET THE IDEA! THEY'RE GANGSTERS, EHH 😎 Team Bad Guy's got a set number of places they can show up, there's always at least one at the end of the prologue, so new players will meet them and go, "Oh! These are the bad guys. I don't like 'em. I should fight 'em if I see 'em." Then after that, there's just a bunch of different events where you can encounter them doing various schemes, and a bunch of 'em probably tie in with the research quests, like, "Ah, they stole a Pokémon fossil! You gotta get it back! Ehh!" So, for instance, maybe you're playing the fire version, and there's a bank in one of the first towns you can go to. And there's rumors flying around that Team Bad Guy's gonna rob the bank. And if you get there before, like, I dunno, three badges, then you can stop the heist. However! If you never visit that town, or don't do that bank dungeon, then they succeed with their robbery, and now all their goons have potions they bought using the bank money!!! So the game gets a little harder. And if you're playing the grass version, which starts really far away from that bank town, you won't be able to get to the bank in time! But the NPCs will tell you that, "Oh, the fire buddy ended up stopping that robbery!" Instead, YOU get to fight Team Bad Guy on, like, a riverboat! And you gotta fight them in this riverboat casino, and it's exclusive to the start of this version! And then in the fire and water versions, it's like, "Oh, yeah, I heard grass buddy stopped them from taking over that riverboat, that was really nice of them!" But in this version exclusively, You get to do it. 😎 This way, the world feels like it exists beyond just the player character! It's important that your actions and the actions of other characters have consequences in your world. Otherwise, it feels soulless. This is why Skyrim's world feels so bland. Because you can spend hours doing something like ending the civil war questline, and then after you do that, *nothing changes.* All the enemy camps are still in the same spot, they still attack you, the nation's still at a standstill, and the only difference is that some people sit in different chairs, and guards are like, "Wow! The Civil War sure is over!" "Don't investigate!" "Hidely-ho!" It's bad. So we don't want that. I also really want there to be one member of Team Bad Guy who acts as your main rival! Let's just call him "Jerk!" And Jerk is like an old-school Pokémon rival. He's like your Blue, your Silver, he's the one you wanna punch in the face. And, like you keep bumping into him. And at first he's just, like, a flunky, but every time you see him, he's risen up a few more ranks in the industry, and then by the end of the game, he's the final boss! Whoaaaa!!! Whoa he got strong! I—it's kinda dumb and cheesy, but I always really like it when the miniboss you've been fighting the whole game is, like, suddenly the final boss. I think that's— I think that's a cool climax. Beyond that, I don't really think there needs to be much of a story, and while I'd love to see a Pokémon game with a well-written plot, with this game's open structure, I'm already asking for a lot, and I don't think *this* is the game for a sweeping storyline. But, what this game DOES need... is to be charming. So! I would recommend hiring... a writer. 😂 Maybe even, like, two or three! I know, I know: This is probably the most radical change I am asking of GameFreak. But, to take an open-ended game from good to great, it NEEDS to be charming! I wanna *like* the NPCs, whether it's a named character or, like, a bug-catcher on the side of the road. Pokémon's dialogue is so bizarre, like, characters will just randomly spout nonsense and philosophy apropos of nothing? and nobody talks or acts like a real person. No shade on, like, Nintendo of America or whatever, but Pokémon's localization is always... really really awkward? and really bad... We're kinda desensitized to it at this point! It's like Pokémon is a weird, well-meaning uncle at a family gathering. And he'll walk up to you and be like, "Eh! Debooda debooda nonsense!" and, and your friend standing next to you will be like, "What the heck did he mean? 🤨" And you're like, "Ehhh, it's just Uncle Pokémon! He's just like that!" But, like... it's really kind of uncanny, what they can get away with, because... if this weren't a game with such brand power and recognition, people would be like, "What are you talking about?! Why do you say these things?" So, what I'm shooting for is charm. And if you want an example of what I mean by "charm," I'm thinking, like, Trails in the Sky style. And if you've never played it, 'cause no one's ever played it, Trail is a JRPG from the early 2000s, it's kinda ugly, and the gameplay leaves a bit to be desired, but the characters are just *good?* Like, not just the named characters, like, *everybody* is good, and I like all of the NPCs, and I just wanna help everybody I meet! I'd go so far as to say the first chapter of Trails in the Sky is almost exclusively carried by solid dialogue and likable characters. Especially the lead, she's fantastic. The only Pokémon game that's really had good writing to any degree is maybe some of the Mystery Dungeon games and, given Pokémon's general track record at this point, I feel like those were just a fluke. So, hire some writers. Just hire a good localization team. Bam. Bing bang boom. That's all you gotta do. So, that's pretty much it for the story and structural changes. Now I'm gonna talk a little bit about mechanical nitpicks and little other things I'd like to change. First of all, don't force the players to watch tutorials at the beginning of the game. I'd be willing to bet that actually 70% of the people playing Pokémon nowadays already know how to catch a Pokémon, and know how to use a potion. I understand that these games are for children. I get it. And I know that you have to teach them. But I think it would be pretty easy to add a dialogue box that asks, "Hey! Do you already know how to catch a Pokémon?" And then you click "yes." &lt;:) And they go, "Great! Moving along." Legendary Pokémon. No more of 'em. Full disclosure, I hate legendary Pokémon, their involvement in the story is always dumb and thrown in at the last minute, there's so many legendaries they don't feel special anymore, they're not fun to catch, so... This game is just gonna be, like, almost devoid of legendary Pokémon. And instead of them using legendaries as the mascots, it's just gonna be the starters, like, starters are cuter, anyway! They'll sell more plushies. There can be maybe, like, *one* legendary Pokémon in a cave somewhere. And it NEVER interacts with the story, and it's just an optional super-boss you can catch. And if you *have* to have a legendary Pokémon, instead of just making it, like, super strong, make it gimmick-y! Gimme, like, a kit that's just *weird!* Like, it's based on all these unique moves, and it's just stupid and niche and fun. Don't make it super strong. Difficulty level! So, Pokémon games are for children, so they skew on the easy side, and that's fine. Honestly, I don't really want Pokémon games to be HARD. They don't need to be HARD. But, like... Again... this is the most successful franchise in human history. And tens of millions of your players are now teenagers! Or adults who have been playing Pokémon for years! Decades, even! So, it might be nice if there was an option to play with a *slightly* trickier difficulty level? Pokémon has experimented with difficulty levels in Black and White, but the way they did it was really weird? Like, Hard Mode was exclusive to Black, and Easy Mode was exclusive to White, and then you had to unlock them by beating the game on Normal Mode?! Like, who plays a game on Normal Mode and is then like, "Oh! That was really tough! I'm glad I unlocked Easy Mode so I can play the whole game I just beat again but easier!" No one! No one ever! What is that design choice?! So have the difficulty levels available at the beginning of the game, maybe just two of 'em, Normal and, like, Challenge or Master Mode, and bump up the average trainer level a little bit, give trainers bigger teams? Like, I played through Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, which are, like, the easiest games in the series, and I think there were literally three trainers in the whole game with a team of more than three or four Pokémon. And it's you, the Champion, And, like, that one dude who's REALLY dedicated to having a team of six Magikarps. You know, that guy? That guy who's just sticking to that strategy? So, we're pretty far into this video, And now I'm gonna go back to the beginning and grab those three thesis, 'cause I didn't mention the third one! Now we're taking it out, that third thesis is finally relevant, and that is encouraging players to love and befriend their Pokémon. So, Pokémon's always done this thing where they say the reason your player character is such a good trainer is because you love your Pokémon! And you treat them like partners instead of tools! And until recently, they've done a really bad job re-enforcing this through the mechanics. But in X&amp;Y, they added Pokémon Amie, and Pokémon Amie's a really good addition, you get to pet your Pokémon, you can feed 'em, you can play with 'em, and that's really cute, but it's also really imbalanced, because if you feed your Pokémon cupcakes for 25 minutes straight, you can take even the worst Pokémon from team benchwarmer and make them an unstoppable killing machine. Because that affection rank will give them a dodge bonus, a crit bonus, experience bonus—it makes them too powerful. It's, it's completely busted. They have another Pokémon Amie-like system in Sun and Moon, and it's still too powerful. I stopped petting my Pokémon at one point because, if I pet them any more, they would get TOO STRONG FOR ME. And they'd beat everything up, and there'd be no challenge left in the game, and it would be boring. And I don't wanna not pet my Pokémon because if I pet them, the game will suck! So if they took that system and just rebalanced it so it was a little less powerful, that would be awesome. Or maybe they could add an item like a friendship bracelet! And if you get that friendship bracelet, you can put it on your favorite Pokémon, and they get all those bonuses. They get really strong. That way, you can have your really powerful Pokémon, and there can be, like, two or three friendship bracelets hidden in really difficult dungeons, so, if you *really* want a team of overpowered Pokémon, then you can have it, and it's a reward instead of just something that's arbitrarily tied to the affection mechanic. Also, IVs? IVs are bad. We're getting rid of 'em. We're cutting the IV drip. IVs just make certain Pokémon objectively better than others, it's just bad, it's just something that makes people grind for more, better Pokémon, it goes against the spirit of the series, so we're getting rid of it entirely. And I know that might be kind of a controversial decision because it's used a lot in competitive Pokémon; I don't play competitive and I'm not gonna pretend to understand it, but I *feel* like the fun of competitive Pokémon comes from coming up with a cool strategy and a cool team, and pitting it against other cool teams with cool strategies. So! Here's what we'll do. Instead of, like, a Battle Frontier or something, we're gonna have the Battle Simulator. Players can sit down and create a digital Pokémon team from scratch. You pick whatever moves and abilities from their move pool you want, and get to give them whatever item you want without having to go out and collect it, and it's all just in this virtual space. And players can do this right out of the gate. Like, it's just in a console in the Pokémon Center or something. So you can go right into playing competitive Pokémon against your friends before your first badge. Other small points: Let me rename traded Pokémon. I don't understand why this is still something you can't do. What is this even preventing? Like, you trade a Pokémon to a guy and before he gives it back to you, he names it buttfart. S-So what? You can go change it back. And, like, if he's really determined to be a jerk and mess with you, he's just gonna keep the Pokémon regardless of whether he can rename it or not. I feel like this feature causes more frustration than it alleviates. Also, traded Pokémon shouldn't get an EXP boost anymore just from being traded. I think the original purpose for this was to encourage kids back in, like, the olden days to trade Pokémon, buy a link cable, get the other version, spend more money, and that way, the traded Pokémon they worked hard for is, like, better, but now you can just get a traded Pokémon through the GTS or Wonder Trade, like, instantly. Why does that Pokémon level faster? Get rid of that. It's dumb. Camera: Zoom the camera out a little bit and have more of the overworld onscreen at once! Ever since Pokémon hit its full 3D stride, I feel like the overworld's been a lot less fun to explore. Like, compare how much of the screen your player character takes up in the old games to the more recent ones. Just—just, go on! Just scoot it out a bit! Thank you guys for watching this very long video! I know this isn't normally the kind of thing we make, so let me know if you liked it, let me know if it was awful, but I'm interested to hear your feedback! Special thank you to everyone who helped us gather footage, extra-special thank you to our guest editor Piph, he did a really good job, and super-special thank you to Dragon City again for sponsoring this video. Click the link in the description below if you wanna be a dragon! :) ♪♪♪ ♪♪ ♪